1. 
	- Couldn't find the Gaddis HW pages, will try later
2. 
	- Compute $\arg\max \prod_i \vec{v}$ where $\vec{v} = \left[ v_1, v_2, \dots, v_i\right]$ such that $v_i \in \mathbb{N}$ and $\sum_i \vec{v} = n$ 
Proof by induction:
Suppose we have $\vec{v} = \left[ v_1, v_2, \dots, v_l \right]$ satisfying $\sum_i \vec{v} = n$
One optimization that we can make is that for any $\vec{v}$ with elements $v_i \ne v_j$, we can construct a vector $\vec{\lambda}$, where $\lambda_i = \lambda_j = \frac{v_i + v_j}{2}$, and $\lambda_{a \ne i, a \ne j} = v_a$. We can then argue that $\prod_i \vec{\lambda} > \prod_i \vec{v}$
Proof
Let $p = \prod_i \vec{v}$. We can say that $\prod_i \vec{\lambda} = \frac{p}{v_iv_j} \cdot {\lambda_i \lambda_j}$. Therefore, $\frac{\prod_i \vec{\lambda}}{p} = \frac{\frac{p}{v_iv_j} \cdot \lambda_i \lambda_j}{p} = \frac{\lambda_i \lambda_j}{v_iv_j}$
To prove that $\prod_i \vec{\lambda} > \prod_i \vec{v}$, we can prove that $\frac{\lambda_i \lambda_j}{v_iv_j} > 1$
$\lambda_i \lambda_j = {(\frac{v_1 + v_2}{2})}^2$
$$\frac{\lambda_i \lambda_j}{v_iv_j} > 1$$$$\frac{{(\frac{v_i+v_j}{2})}^2}{v_iv_j} > 1$$
$$\frac{{(v_i+v_j)}^2}{4v_iv_j} > 1$$
$${(v_i+v_j)}^2 > 4v_iv_j$$
$$v_i^2 + 2v_iv_j + v_j^2 > 4v_iv_j$$
$$v_i^2 -2v_iv_j + v_j^2 > 0$$
$$(v_i - v_j)^2 > 0$$
Since $v_i \ne v_j$, $v_i - v_j$ cannot be 0, therefore its square will always be greater than 0.
This proves that the optimal list (allowing $v_i \in \mathbb{Q}, v_i \ge 1$) has all elements equal. 

### Solving for $v_i$
Now that we know all entries of $\vec{v}$ are equal, we can solve for the value of any entry, which we will denote $v_i$. 
$$\sum_i \vec{v} = n$$
$$\sum_i^l v_i = n$$
$$l \cdot v_i = n$$
$$v_i = \frac{n}{l}$$

The next thing to determine is the optimal length. Since we know that all elements of the vector all the same, we now have a simple expression for the term we want to maximize
$$\prod_i \vec{v} = \prod_i v_i = v_i^l = \left(\frac{n}{l}\right)^l$$
Where $1 \le l \le n$
To optimize this term, we can use simple calculus. Let $f(x) = \left(\frac{n}{x}\right)^x$. To find the extrema, we just find the zeroes of $f'(x)$
$$f'(x) = \frac{d}{dx} \left(\frac{n}{x}\right)^x$$$$= \frac{d}{dx}\left( e^{x\ln{\frac{n}{x}}} \right)$$
$$= e^{x\ln{\frac{n}{x}}} \cdot (\ln{(\frac{n}{x})}-1)$$
A power term can never be zero, so for this to be zero, $\ln{\left(\frac{n}{x}\right)}-1 = 0$
This means that $\ln{\left(\frac{n}{x}\right)} = 1$, so $\frac{n}{x} = e$, so $x = \frac{n}{e}$\
$l$ must be an integer, so we can say that $l = \text{round}(\frac{n}{e})$
This gives us our final (unrounded) vector
$$\vec{v} = [v_1, v_2, \dots, v_l]$$
such that $l = \text{round}(\frac{n}{e})$ and for $i \in \mathbb{N}$ and $1 \le i \le l$, $v_i = \frac{n}{l}$

Rigorous definition of $\text{round}(x)$:
$$\text{round}(x): \mathbb{R} \rightarrow \mathbb{Z} = \begin{cases} \lfloor x \rfloor & \text{if } x - \lfloor x \rfloor < \frac{1}{2}\\ \lceil x \rceil & \text{if } x - \lfloor x \rfloor > \frac{1}{2}\end{cases}$$
$\text{round}(x)$ is not defined for $x = w \in \mathbb{Z} + \frac{1}{2}$, but this is not a problem for our use case. 
Proof by contradiction:
Suppose we did have an undefined value for $\text{round}(x)$ in our math. The only place we use $\text{round}(x)$is in $\text{round}(\frac{n}{e})$, so that would imply that $\frac{n}{e} = w \in \mathbb{Z} + \frac{1}{2}$
$\frac{n}{e} = \frac{2w + 1}{2}$
$n = e\frac{2w + 1}{2}$
$e = \frac{2n}{2w+1}$
This would imply that $e \in \mathbb{Q}$, since it equals the ratio of 2 whole numbers. However, $e$ is known to be transcendental, and therefore we have a contradiction. Therefore, we will never run into the edge case for $\text{round}(x)$; it will always be defined for our inputs. 

The above equations always give the optimal result, but they do it for elements in the rational numbers, not the integers. I thought I had a system for rounding that always produced the optimal output (shown below), but I found some counterexamples, and I can't figure out how to move forward. I apologize for taking so long on this homework (and not even completing it fully), while also not answering this question satisfactorily. For a computer algorithm, one could start with the guess generated by the above equations, and just test a few different combinations of lengths and entries near the given values. I don't think I'm quite skilled enough at math to figure out a closed form solution for solving this with natural number entries. 

To round these terms, we can write $v_i = w + \frac{a}{b}$, where $w \in \mathbb{N}$. This is valid since we know that $v_i$ is a rational number, being a ratio of two integers. We can then say that for a vector $\vec{\lambda}$ with rounded terms, $\lambda_i = w$ when  $(i - 1\mod_b) \le b - a$, and $w + 1$ otherwise. For example, the vector $\vec{v} = [3 \frac{1}{3}, 3 \frac{1}{3}, 3 \frac{1}{3}]$ would round to $[3, 3, 4]$,  and the vector $\vec{v} = [3 \frac{2}{3}, 3 \frac{2}{3}, 3 \frac{2}{3}]$ would round to $[3, 4, 4]$. We can also explicitly solve for the elements. The two unique values in the vector, $\lambda_a$ and $\lambda_b$, can solved for easily.
$$\lambda_a = \lfloor v_i\rfloor, \lambda_b = \lceil v_i \rceil$$
We also need to solve for the number of each term, in order to calculate $\prod_i \vec{\lambda}$.
Let $(\lambda_a)^\alpha \cdot (\lambda_b)^\beta = \prod_i \vec{\lambda}$, and $\alpha + \beta = l$
First, notice that because $v_i = w+\frac{a}{b} = \frac{n}{l}$, $l = \frac{n}{w+\frac{a}{b}} = \frac{n}{\frac{wb + a}{b}} = b\frac{n}{wb + a}$, which means that $l \mod_b = 0$. This means that stepping though all values of $i$, from $0$ to $l$, always completes $\frac{l}{b}$ cycles. During each cycle, the number of $i$ values that get mapped to $\lambda_a$ is the number of $1 \le i \le b$ values that satisfy $i - 1 \le b - a$, which just equals $b - a$. Therefore, we have $\frac{l}{b}$ cycles, each with $b - a$ values that map to $\lambda_a$, so $$\alpha = \frac{l}{b}(b-a)$$
We can now easily solve for $\beta$
$$\alpha + \beta = l$$
$$\beta = l - \alpha$$
$$\beta = l - \frac{l}{b}(b-a)$$
$$\beta = l - \frac{l(b-a)}{b}$$
$$\beta = \frac{lb - l(b-a)}{b}$$
$$\beta = \frac{lb - lb + la}{b}$$
$$\beta = \frac{la}{b}$$
Therefore, we find that
$$\prod_i \vec{\lambda} = \lfloor v_i \rfloor^{\frac{l}{b}(b-a)} \cdot \lceil v_i \rceil^{\frac{la}{b}}$$

