- General thesis: "The Wall" is a work nominally about the experiences of individuals in Pink Floyd and their experiences with childhood abuse and commodification as rock stars, written from the perspective of Pink, a rockstar whose life experiences build a metaphorical "wall" or repression around him. However, it can also be read as a general description of abuse and disassociation. This is an experience that many transfeminine people can relate to, and so it's quite easy to read this album from a transfeminine perspective. Additionally, there are important details that make this more than just a narrowing of a general work on these subjects. I don't mean to suggest that anyone in Pink Floyd was trans, or meant to put trans themes in this work, but I think that they are there nonetheless.
- Some of this may seem like a stretch, but honestly? I don't give a fuck. lmao
- Also, I won't be stating the standard/nominal interpretation of each track. It's really not that hard to figure out. 
- Track list and themes for each:
	- "In the Flesh?" - In this analysis, I'll repeatedly take "show" and "performance" to be metaphors for the performative nature of gender, and masculinity in particular (this doesn't mean I endorse performativity as way of understanding queer identity, but my disagreements with Judith Butler shall be saved for another essay). This song suggests that "you", standing in for society at large, expects Pink to be performing masculinity in a standard, assumed way. Of course, they immediately reject that notion ("Tell me, is something eluding you, sunshine? / Is this not what you expected to see?"), and also hit at the repression and disassociation that are core elements of the work ("If you wanna find out what's behind these cold eyes / You'll just have to claw you way through this disguise")
	- "The Thin Ice" - This song suggests that societal expectations and assumptions around gender (like everything else) are incredibly contrived, and to expect them to hold under any pressure is incredibly naive. "If you should go skating / On the thin ice of modern life ... Don't be surprised when a crack in the ice / Appears under your feet.". However, even though they are naive and unrealistic, society clings to them anyway "With your fear flowing out behind you / As you claw the thin ice"
	- "Another Brick in the Wall, Pt. 1" - Don't have much to say on this one, sorry
	- "The Happiest Days of Our Lives" - Teachers and the education system have a strong hand in influencing children to obey the rules of normative society, including gender. The teachers here can be read as general stand-ins for adults in general, with the power they have over children. In this song, the teachers abuse children, exposing their weaknesses and mocking them, and it's not hard to read this with a gnc perspective. Oftentimes trans people will express gender variance as children, which will be mocked and derided by the adults around them, leading them to repress their emotions and desires. 
	- "Another Brick in the Wall, Pt. 2" - This song continues from the previous, both musically and in terms of meaning. Again, the song discusses the abuse that children face from teachers, with explicit emphasis on the way this "education" attempts to mold children into compliant adults ("thought control"), and how this abuse creates walls of repression in the children who do not (or even cannot) comply. 
	- "Mother" - This track expresses the way the nuclear family and society constructs the child as an object to be manipulated and molded into perfectly reproducing normative gender and sexual roles, and the way that being a "concerned parent" can function as abuse just as much as an uncaring or antagonistic parent can ("Mama's gonna put all her fears into you ... She won't let you fly, but she might let you sing"). Additionally, the line "Mama's gonna keep baby healthy and clean" can represent the way that non-normative gender expression is derided as "disgusting" or "perverted". The line "Ooh baby, you'll always be baby to me" is almost word for word a line many trans people hear when trying to come out to people who they've known for a long time, often family members. 
	- Goodbye Blue Sky - Maybe if I was smart enough, I could figure out a way to read this, but for now I've got nothing. Sorry.
	- Empty Spaces - Pretty directly about disassociation and loss of real emotion, which is a common way to experience dysphoria. If I really wanted to stretch this, I could, but I'd rather not get cancelled by the woke mob (TME people)
	- Young Lust - I understand this track as an attempt to repress and play the role of a "normal" man, particularly with regards to sexuality. The song itself is a strong tonal shift from the previous tracks on the album, in terms of topic, vocals, and genre (it feels much more standard rock & roll a la Def Leppard, AC/DC, etc. than most of the album), which to me feels like an attempt to put on a mask and play the role of a sexual normal man. The line "Will some woman in this desert land / Make me feel like a real man?" lends evidence to this reading, suggesting that Pink doesn't feel like a "real man" (a heavily loaded term) most of the time, and in desperation to be normal is turning to normative male sexuality in the hopes it will fix him. This is a common experience among transfems, particuarly ones from older generations, who often felt that getting married and settling down in a normal life would "fix" their desires to be women (spoiler alert: it doesn't do that). "Denial beards" is a general term for when transfeminine people try to repress their gender by leaning hard into masculinity (like, for example, growing a beard), so this attempt to repress by performing masculinity exceptionally rigorously is a common one among transfems, and reading this line as an example of that is not too much of a stretch.
	- "One of My Turns" - This song is pretty directly about Pink's emotional repression causing him to snap and consider suicide. In a transfeminine reading, this song is highly interesting because the plot trigger for this break in Pink's mental state is him bringing a girl (maybe a sex worker, I don't quite remember the full lore) back to his apartment to have sex, in a continuation of the previous song. It is incredibly easy to read this as his dysphoria getting so overwhelming in the fact of having to have sex with a woman as man, that Pink can't block it out any more and he snaps, contemplating throwing himself out of a window into the street below. Sex is possibly the most dysphoric action a repression transfem can do, and so it makes complete sense that this would be the trigger that breaks down the wall, at least for a little bit.
	- "Don't Leave Me Now" - This would be a fairly normal song in which the singer begs his partner to not leave him, except his reasons for needing her are so that he can commit violence against her ("I need you, babe / To put through the shredder in front of my friends", "To beat to a pulp on a Saturday night"). This reading understands this song as being more evidence for Pink's relationships and sexual activity being not for pleasure, but so that he performs masculinity acceptably. In particular, the "in front of my friends" part of the first snippet speaks to this extremely clearly. He doesn't just need to be misogynistic and abusive, he needs other people to see him do it - to witness his performance of masculinity. 
	- "Another Brick in the Wall, Pt. 3" - Short song, not much to say about it unfortunately. 
	- "Goodbye Cruel World" - Clearly about Pink about to take his own life, but not much more beyond that.
	- "Hey You" - A song from two perspectives, one person outside the wall and one person still trapped behind it. The disassociation and loss of emotion is once again present. As much as the person outside of the wall tries to help the one trapped behind, it is futile ("But it was only fantasy / The wall was too high, as you can see"). This is one of the central themes of *Nevada*, an incredible work of transfeminine literature. Even if a fully out trans woman came up to you, told you she was trans, and that you were too, it wouldn't really help, at least not in the moment. Breaking out of the prison of assigned gender is something only the person trapped inside can really do. I'm internalizing this song as my T4T anthem. Also, the mention of "brain worms" is really funny to me, seeing the modern usage of that term on trans internet spaces (pink floyd predicted 4chan).
	- "Is There Anybody Out There?" - N/A so far
	- "Nobody Home" - Like all the songs on this album about performance and persona, the attempts at complying with the "normal" lifestyle of a rockstar (drugs and fashion and "the obligatory Hendrix perm") can also be read as general attempts to perform masculinity adequately. Additionally, Pink's experience of having no one to talk to in his isolation is an experience a lot of closeted trans women understand (especially given the age, where confiding in someone would likely beget a violent response). 
	- "Vera" - N/A
	- "Bring the Boys Back Home" - (Flashbacks to WWII, and Pink being completely unresponsive to the outside world)
	- "Comfortably Numb" - Really, the song that inspired this whole endeavor in the first place. 
	  Pink's experience of being forcibly medicated in order to ensure that he can adequately perform is such an obvious trans metaphor to me that I felt I had to write this (if it's not obvious to you, go watch *The Matrix* and then come back. Actually, do that anyway. It's always a great time). Pink's flashbacks to his childhood additionally reemphasize this reading. "I can't explain, you would not understand // This is not how I am" - Pink is fundamentally, at the most basic level, out of sync with how the world expects him to be, and at his core he feels wrong in his existence, although he can't share this feeling with anyone else. That experience is almost word-for-word how I would attempt to explain the existential anguish that dysphoria can cause. "When I was a child, I caught a fleeting glimpse // Out of the corner of my eye // I turned to look, but it was gone // I cannot put my finger on it now // The child is grown, the dream is gone" - It's not too hard to read this as Pink having significant childhood dysphoria, but not quite understanding the cause of his pain, and then losing the ability to feel it as directly as he was forced into disassociation by dysphoria and the violence of coercive gender assignment. He can't really understand what it was like anymore because he can't feel anything anymore, and this disassociation is a defense mechanism against the pain he was feeling. 
	- "The Show Must Go On" - Repeats similar themes as the previous song - "There must be some mistake, I didn't mean to let them // Take away my soul, am I too old, is it too late" and "Where has the feeling gone? // Will I remember the song?" (remembering the song could be read simply has Pink stressing over his performance, but I can easily see a song being a metaphor for small moments of gender euphoria (or really, anything at all). Now that he doesn't feel, will he remember what it was like? What pain and joy felt like?)
	- "In the Flesh" - Another song that's incredibly easy to read with this perspective. Homophobia and Transphobia (and others) are often theorized as responses to societies doubts about its normative systems and established roles, and you can project this into the individual, in this case reading Pink's fascistic turn as caused by fears over his own identity, now that he has been forced to perform masculinity better (this can be summed up with the humorous and sometimes accurate stereotype of the secretly gay homophobic politician). This runs parallel to ideas about the performance of masculinity itself, which to do well requires a willingness to commit violence against nonconforming individuals (who commits more hate crimes, men or women? who commits more crimes in general?). Obviously not every man is automatically violent, but to reach the top of masculine performance, one will be asked to commit this violence. Pink, having been forced to perform a masculine role by society (and through those around him) is turning to a quick and simple way to "get a good grade" at being a man - violence. In general, a bent towards rigorous compliance with masculinity has often been a tendency of transgender people who are repressing their true selves (just research the concept of a "denial beard"). In the song, while engaging in this violent and fascistic acts, specifically and explicitly demands that queers be put against the wall (he isn't as explicit for the other minorities named). Of course, we already know of one such person "up against the wall" - Pink himself. Obviously a long-shot reading, but a nice touch nonetheless. 
	- "Run Like Hell" - To me, there are parts of this song that only make sense to me under this reading. In our framing, I would view this song not as directed towards anyone, but as Pink's inner monologue to himself. Following from the previous song, Pink's demands being made of "you" are read as his internal fears of the violence he would experience if his performance ever falters.  "You better make your face up in // your favorite disguise", "With your empty smile", "Feel the bile rising from your guilty past", "Keep your dirty feelings / Deep inside", and of course the constant demands to run and never stop. Pink is committed to his performance, and so now feels intense anxiety, fearing that if he isn't perfect, society will see through him and make him the target of their violence.
	- "Waiting for the Worms" - N/A, but there is something here, I just need to find it
	- "Stop" - N/A, but I think there might be a few things here as well
	- "The Trial" - In the Trial, the very same people whose violence caused Pink's suffering and turn to fascism argue that in fact they all needed more control over him, that if they could've done more it would've fixed him. This obvious irony here represents the society's attitude towards those who take power structure to their extreme (and logical conclusion), where we disavow the people who are but simple products of the systems we put in place. When the domestic abuser is shamed for not being a "real man", when liberal democracies spiral rightwards ("not very democratic"), when capitalism destroys the planet ("it's actually corporatism!"); these things are taken as "aberrations" instead of the inevitable conclusion. The album correctly identifies that the violence Pink caused stemmed from his own "deepest fear" and demands that he be his true self. 
	- "Outside the Wall" - This song, which loops back into the start of the album, is normally taken as evidence for the neverending cycle of Pink's struggles, but I think especially under this reading, it can be taken in a slightly more positive note. The song describes the people outside the wall, how they struggle to help the person they care for trapped inside, and because Pink has been our main narrator for the entire album so far, I don't think it's too out there to suggest he is our narrator here as well. this implies, then, that he is actually outside the wall, working with all the other bleeding hearts and artists to tear it down. I think this is reflective of the cycles of support we see in queer communities - Often it takes talking to a transgender person to understand dysphoria and to start moving forward, and after transition that debt is payed back by helping others you notice behind the wall. We all support each other, and it is this cycle of support that the album references, not a cycle of suffering. 
- Leitmotifs:
	- 
- Mae’s notes:
	- Make sure that you have a clear line thru ur piece and analysis
	- This is a study :)
	- Structure:
		- Ideas here wtver
	- Reading narratives into a history when denied that epistemic authority to read things in this way
		- U’ve got a pretty good
		- Reading music from a transfem perspective as a process
			- Metaliterary
		- 2 streams here:
			- Analysis of the work itself
			- Metatext about process of reading work transfem-ly (philosophy of analysis)
			- Could def like do both of these things (let’s talk to spencer about longer pieces!!)
			- Saying things and then saying things about things
- General structure:
	- Intro 
	- Tour through different "themes" or throughlines in my analysis
		- e.g. masculinity as performance, disassocitation = dysphoria, societal agents and abuse
		- Thoughout this tour, intersperse disgressions stemming from "interesting" points
	- What makes a point interesting?
		- Any point that can be connected to larger themes, not just about society analysis (which should be in every point), but to themes about the process of reading my analyses into this text
			- metanalytical
	- conclusion?
- "Interesting points"
	- points where our reading helps explain elements of the nominal reading
	- pinks turn from repression to fascism is easily explained in our transfeminine perspective, what does this say about the general work? why does pink turn to fascism there?
		- still gotta loop with one back
	- Run like hell - it's not terribly hard to see that fascists in general have this self hating character; fascism is a demoralizing ideology - but under the transfem it's incredibly obvious
	- Don't leave me now - i'm quite confident that the reading of this song is just the generalized version of our transfem reading; is there something there?
		- "Waters, in a 1980 interview with Jim Ladd, described this song as being about "two people who have treated each other very badly", yet are devastated at the prospect of their relationship ending." 
		- I need to find more evidence of the above being a common reading, because to me seeing this as Pink overperforming (masculinity in the trans case, but general conformity) is the most enlightening way to understand this.
- sources for normative reading
	- http://www.pink-floyd.org/artint/119.htm
- "Sections" of analysis
	- Formation of normative identity - "The Happiest Days of Our Lives", "Another Brick in the Wall, Pt. 2", "Mother"
		- These songs focus specifically on the *formation* of identity, following Pink's experience with the school system and the nuclear family. We see forces in Pink's life designed to force him to be a certain way, including the process of coercive gender assignment. 
	- Pressure to conform, and masculinity as performance and violence - "In the Flesh?", "Young Lust", "Don't Leave Me Now", "Nobody Home", "In the Flesh", "Run Like Hell"
	- Society's relation to categorical assignment -  "The Thin Ice", "The Trial"
	- Trans community - "Hey You", "Outside the Wall" 
	- Dysphoria - "Empty Spaces", "One of My Turns",  "Comfortably Numb", "The Show Must Go On"
- What is the best way to structure this essay?